What is GitHub?
GitHub is a web-based version control and collaboration platform for software developers. Microsoft, the biggest single contributor to GitHub, acquired the platform for $7.5 billion in 2018. GitHub, which is delivered through a software as a service (SaaS) business model, was started in 2008. It was founded on Git, an open source code management system created by Linus Torvalds to make software builds faster.

Git is used to store the source code for a project and track the complete history of all changes to that code. It lets developers collaborate on a project more effectively by providing tools for managing possibly conflicting changes from multiple developers.

GitHub allows developers to change, adapt and improve software from its public repositories for free, but it charges for private repositories, offering various paid plans. Each public and private repository contains all of a project's files, as well as each file's revision history. Repositories can have multiple collaborators and can be either public or private.

How does GitHub work?
GitHub facilitates social coding by providing a hosting service and web interface for the Git code repository, as well as management tools for collaboration. The developer platform can be thought of as a social networking site for software developers. Members can follow each other, rate each other's work, receive updates for specific open source projects, and communicate publicly or privately.

The following are some important terms GitHub developers use:

Fork. A fork, also known as a branch, is a repository that has been copied from one member's account to another member's account. Forks and branches let a developer make modifications without affecting the original code.
Pull request. If a developer would like to share their modifications, they can send a pull request to the owner of the original repository.
Merge. If, after reviewing the modifications, the original owner would like to pull the modifications into the repository, they can accept the modifications and merge them with the original repository.
Push. This is the reverse of a pull -- a programmer sends code from a local copy to the online repository.
Commit. A commit, or code revision, is an individual change to a file or set of files. By default, commits are retained and interleaved onto the main project, or they can be combined into a simpler merge via commit squashing. A unique ID is created when each commit is saved that lets collaborators keep a record of their work. A commit can be thought of as a snapshot of a repository.
Clone. A clone is a local copy of a repository.This is some additional content in sample.txt on feature-branch.
This is some additional content in sample.txt on feature-branch.
